1. Selenium Architecture

2. Latest version  of Selenium - 4.1.0
3.141

3. Locators

4. Difference between close() and quit()
close() method shall close the browser which is in focus. quit() method closes all the browsers.

5. write xpath for a scenario

6. Dependent and independent writing xpath
Use ../ to move one step upwards. We have to use ../ twice one for <td> and one to reach common parent <tr>.

7. How do you read data from webtable
using locator by inspecting

8. How do you check if the contents of the table are in sorted order or not

9. css locator - Why css is the Fastest locator?
Xpath allows bidirectional flow which means the traversal can be both ways from parent to
child and child to parent as well. Css allows only one directional flow which means the traversal
is from parent to child only.

10. Single slash and duble slash difference
/ immidiate child a dn// any child

11. Counting all links, maps, find element, find elements etc


12. Unexpected tagname, NoSuchElementException, StaleElementReference, StaleElementException, TimwOutException


13. Difference between implit wait and explicit wait
An explicit wait makes WebDriver wait for a certain condition to occur before proceeding further with execution.
An implicit wait makes WebDriver poll the DOM for a certain amount of time when trying to locate an element

14. Difference between absolute xpath and relative xpath
absolute: Traversing the absolute path of the element in the DOM Structure. The disadvantage of absolutexpath
is that if there are any changes made in the path of the element then the Xpath fails. Absolute Xpath starts
with forward slash (/), meaning immediate child

relative: Relative Xpath starts with double forward slash (//), meaning the element can be searched
any where in the webpage


15. Difference between findElement and findElements
While findElement can pinpoint only one element. The findElement method throws
a NoSuchElementException exception when the element is not available on the page.
findElements method returns the list of all matching elements.Whereas,
the findElements method returns an empty list when the element is not available or doesn't exist on the page

16. How do you check broken links
if we are not getting proper response from webpage it will get error or file no fount(404)

17. How do you verify the color of the web element
@value of CSS property color

18. How do you get the location and size of a particular web element.
by using rect

19.What are the challenges that you have faced in your project while automating.

The main challenge is automating in Agile environment. Where the objects and the application scenario flows are
constantly changing.
Could not verify the order confirmation email after placing the order. (Verify the contents of the email).
Could not verify the exact image of the product that is being added to the cart (Image Comparison).
Forgot Password functionality, we could not read the password that was being sent to the email.
We had to wait for the user data required for registration or for creating user profile from the clients.
We could not create our own dummy data or mock data for user registration.
Could not automate taking print out of the invoice.
We could not verify the contents of the invoice generated in pdf.
Could not verify recently viewed products.
Add any other challenges that you have faced in your project

20.What are the bugs that you found through automation

Even though the product was out of stock we were able to add the product to the cart.
Total was not getting calculated properly if we add more than one product.
Items were not getting sorted property.
While filtering the product for a particular category, the application was displaying products of other categories as well.

21. How test case allotment happens your project for day to day automation.

Each user story is broken down into different test cases.
Lead assigns test cases based on complexity and experience in the project.
Test cases are categorised based on number of steps. If the test case has less than 4-6 steps
then it is categorised as simple, if the steps are between 8-12 steps then it is catagorised as medium
complexity and if the steps are more than 12 steps, then it is catagorised as complex.

22. What are your current roles and responsibility in the project.
Automation script development and execution, reporting etc.
Interacting with developers and manual testers in understanding the functionality better, reproducing
the defects found during automation, etc. (Please add if you need to add any other responsibility)

23. Explain the framework or what kind of framework you are using.
We are using DataDriven framework with POM approach or design pattern with pytest unittest framework.

Explain the framework structure.
(Like Data, Library, POM, Tests, Reports, Screenshot) All common functionalities of the application would be
maintained in a separate POM class called "BasePage". All other POM classes will inherit "BasePage".
Similarly the common functionalities for all the test scripts would be maintained in a separate class called "BaseTest".
(Like Launching browser, navigating to URL, login, logout and closing the browser) All the test scripts will inherit
from "BaseTest". So we do not have to write the code for common functionalities as mentioned in the above step in each
and every test script. This avoids duplication of code.

Explain how you are maintaining the test data and locators.
Like, for each page we create a separate work sheet and maintain all the locators in that worksheet and we maintain
separate test data sheet where we divide the test data based on modules. We maintain separate worksheet in excel for
each module. The test data required for all the test cases for each module will be maintained in the corresponding
worksheet.(Do not start explaining the logic of how data and locators are being read from excel sheet).

All generic functions for clicking on element, entering text, selecting item from the list box would be maintained
in a separate class called "SeleniumWrapper".

We have written a wait decorator for Synchronisation. Each generic function is being decorated with wait decorator.
So, before performing any action on a web element, the decorator checks if the element is visible and enabled.

To run the test suite, we have written a driver script. We have written
a logic to read the excel and get all the test scripts which has "Execute" column "Yes" and execute the test suite.
We can run all the failed test's using command pytest --last-failed --last-failed-no-failures none

HTML reports will be generated in "Reports" folder and all the screenshots will be taken in "Screenshots" folder.


23. Quality assurance and quality check or center


24. Project
company: Infxq Knowledge Services Pvt Ltd
clint: Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited
Project Name	:	STOCK LOCATOR AND INVENTORY COUNT
Web Application	:	SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT

Supply chain management’s goal is to maintain an uninterrupted flow of goods, from the buyers to sellers.
This application is backend application in E-commerce Company Shoppify. It has sports goods (FGL sports items)
for the growth of business. It is very important that every managers and delivery boys can easily track and count
stocks. So, by using this application we can track the shipping from vendors to buyer and maintain the proper
count of items.

Inventory Count:
An inventory count, or inventory counting, is the physical verification of the numbers and condition of stocks
that are in stock which is a tool within inventory management. This is often done in order to carry out an audit
on whether the technical bookkeeping stock matches the physical warehouse stock.

Module: Count

Stock Locator:
Stock locator it is used to identify physical areas where we stored inventory stocks.
Track the stock location of product from seller to buyer.

Module: Locator
Rolesandresponsibility
Interacting with developers and manual testers in understanding the functionality better
Developed test automation framework using Pytest unit testing framework
Test Execution, identifying defect, preparing Bug report and raising the defect.
Coordinating with the team in analyzing and reporting issues.
Attending daily Standup meetings.
Responsible for Daily and Weekly Status report.


Ageile methedology

Scrum master assign the task to each and every engineer in our team
Then every day he conduct standup meeting(scrum call).
in stand up meeting we discussed what we have done yesterday and how many of them completed and not completed.
at the end of the day we send report to scrum master.

23. Explain the framework or what kind of framework you are using.
We are using DataDriven framework with POM approach or design pattern with pytest unittest framework.

Explain the framework structure.
my frame work consist of
1. driver folder: it hold .exe file of webdriver
2. library
a.config: Config files help creating the initial settings for any project, they help avoiding the hardcoded data

b.conftest: It is special test file to share the fixture. the common functionalities for all the test scripts would be
maintained in a separate class called "BaseTest".
(Like Launching browser, navigating to URL, login, logout and closing the browser) All the test scripts will inherit
from "BaseTest". So we do not have to write the code for common functionalities as mentioned in the above step in each
and every test script. This avoids duplication of code.

c.All generic functions for clicking on element, entering text, selecting item from the list box would be maintained
in a separate class called "SeleniumWrapper".

d.We have written a wait decorator for Synchronisation. Each generic function is being decorated with wait decorator.
So, before performing any action on a web element, the decorator checks if the element is visible and enabled.

Like, for each page we create a separate work sheet and maintain all the locators in that worksheet and we maintain
separate test data sheet where we divide the test data based on modules. We maintain separate worksheet in excel for
each module. The test data required for all the test cases for each module will be maintained in the corresponding
worksheet.

HTML reports will be generated in "Reports" folder and all the screenshots will be taken in "Screenshots" folder.


























